# Crude Tools for learning Japanese
Just a bunch of scripts I modified/wrote for myself. And I've decided to share them.

## animecards_v35_mod
Based on a script by [Anacreon](https://anacreondjt.gitlab.io/docs/mpvscript/).

New features:
1) Script adds tag with the video file name
2) Script can replace old Audio and image
### How to replace old Audio and image
* Add tag "ac-rep" to the note in question. You can do it ether by using "Notes->Add Tags..." or right-clicking the tag in the list on the left side of the Browse window. **!!!ONLY ONE NOTE MUST HAVE THIS TAG!!!**
* Make sure to either deselect the note in Browse window or close the window completely.
* Select all the subtitle lines you wish to add to the card like you usually do with the original script.
* Ctrl + c
* Tab back to MPV and Ctrl + r
* Done. The lines, their respective Audio and the current paused image are replaced and the tag is deleted.
* If tag is still there that means the note was still selected in Browse window at the time.

## manga mokuro and manga mokuro - parent_dir
A pair of BAT-files to use for launching [mokuro](https://github.com/kha-white/mokuro).
### How to use
* Make a shortcut of the file and place it in folder with your mangas. 
* Drag and drop a folder with manga on top of the shortcut.
* parent_dir file supports multiple folders. Just grab all of them and drop on top of a shortcut.

## mokuro2txt - dir
A sript that parses html files generated by [mokuro](https://github.com/kha-white/mokuro) into txt files.
### How to use
* Inside the script find the "save_in_MM" and "MM" variables.
* In "save_in_MM" write eihter True or False: "False" if you want to save txt in the same folder as the manga. "True" if you want to save in separate folder in MM variable.
* In "MM" variable write a destination for your separate folder. It should be in format like this: `C:\\Mangas\\Texts\\`
* Make a shortcut of the files in the folder with mangas. 
* Drag and drop one or multiple folders with html manga on top of the shortcut.

## phonetics
This is a file for Anki addon [HanziWeb](https://ankiweb.net/shared/info/125468335).

This addon generates a “web” of kanji amongst your Anki notes, adding a few examples taken from cards you’ve already reviewed for each kanji in each note.

It also adds a "web" of phonetics. With this you can easily cross-reference the phonetics between kanji.

The original list is intended for Chinese hanzi. This list is edited to resemble [The Usagi Chan Kanji Phonetics Deck](https://learnjapanese.moe/kanjiphonetics/).

I've tried to trim down the original list and make sure the examples are present. But still there could be missing kanji and lots of Chinese hanzi leftovers. Accuracy is not guaranteed. Sorry. :(
### How to use
* Install the addon.
* Find the installed addon here: AppData\Roaming\Anki2\addons21\125468335
* Replace the phonetics.json
* Use addon as usual.

## waniAnki-trimmed
This is a trimmed version of [waniAnki](https://damiansh.github.io/waniAnki/instructions).

The original has pretty tables, radicals/components and mnemonics from WaniKani. So please check it out.

My version just adds the meaning and readings for each kanji in compact text. Only basic information in small format.

The script requires internet access. No offline mode.
### How to use
* Copy and paste the contens of txt into the Back template of your card.
* Replace {{front}} with your field.
